[DOCS] How-to guide for validation without a checkpoint (#1906)
great-expectations/great_expectations: docs/guides/how_to_guides/validation/how_to_validate_data_without_a_checkpoint.rst

How to validate data without a Checkpoint
=========================================

> This guide demonstrates how to load an Expectation Suite and validate data without using a :ref:`Checkpoint<how_to_guides__validation__how_to_create_a_new_checkpoint>`. This might be suitable for environments or workflows where a user does not want to or cannot create a Checkpoint.

Reviewer: This begs the question "When should I use a Checkpoint vs using some other workflow?"

Is there a simple way to answer this in one sentence, or should we write a separate article to cover it?

Author: I'd leave explanation out of the how-tos,  but I can say "for example in a hosted environment"?

Reviewer: Sure, that makes sense.

.. admonition:: Prerequisites: This how-to guide assumes you have already:

  - :ref:`Set up a working deployment of Great Expectations <tutorials__getting_started>`
  - :ref:`Created an Expectation Suite <how_to_guides__creating_and_editing_expectations>`

> The following code mirrors the code provided in the ``validation_playground.ipynb`` notebooks in ``great_expectations/notebooks``. First of all, we import Great Expectations, load our :ref:`Data Context<data_context>`, and define variables for the Datasource and Expectation Suite we want to access:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code mirrors the code provided in the ``validation_playground.ipynb`` notebooks in ``great_expectations/notebooks``. First of all, we import Great Expectations, load our :ref:`Data Context<data_context>`, and define variables for the Datasource we want to access:
```

We don't actually do the Exp Suite until much later, so I wouldn't mention it yet.

Author: Good catch!

    batch_kwargs = {'table': "YOUR_TABLE", "schema": "YOUR_SCHEMA", 'datasource': datasource_name}

    # If you would like to validate the result set of a query:
    batch_kwargs = {'query': 'SELECT YOUR_ROWS FROM YOUR_TABLE', 'datasource': datasource_name}

The following ``batch_kwargs`` can be used to create a batch for a Pandas or PySpark Datasource:

.. code-block:: python

    # If you would like to validate a file on a filesystem:
    batch_kwargs = {'path': "YOUR_FILE_PATH", 'datasource': datasource_name}

    # If you would like to validate in a PySpark or Pandas dataframe:
    batch_kwargs = {'dataset': "YOUR_DATAFRAME", 'datasource': datasource_name}

Finally, we create the batch using those ``batch_kwargs`` and the name of the Expectation Suite we want to use, and run validation:

.. code-block:: python

    batch = context.get_batch(batch_kwargs, "my_expectation_suite")

    results = context.run_validation_operator(
        "action_list_operator",
        assets_to_validate=[batch],
        run_id="my_run_id") # Make my_run_id a unique identifier, e.g. a timestamp

> This runs validation and saves the results to JSON.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This runs validation and executes any ValidationActions configured for this ValidationOperator (e.g. saving the results to a ValidationResult Store).
```

It won't always be JSON...

Author: Good call, thanks!
